Array queries.
So arrays are a very interesting type in
Firestore, because you can query on them
and there's a lot of power when
you're doing array queries.
So when people started initially
modelling their data in Firestore,
they might use an object or
a map to query their documents.
So maybe let's say you wanted to,
a new requirement comes down and
expenses now should be able to be
tagged by multiple categories.
So not just one category, it could be
food or food and transportation, right?
Maybe it's like a party bus, I don't know.
But you have multiple tagging for
a single expense.
So maybe you have it as
a categories object and
then you put the name of the category.
But then you're writing something
weird where it's like where
categories.fun = true.
And it works, but
it's weird, and this is what
your document would have a categories
object that looks something like that.
But instead, we could just store it as an
array, and so it has a list of categories.
And then we can use
special array operators.
So this is array contains.
So it says hey, get expenses
where the category contains fun,
so it can have another category to it,
but it has to contain fun.
And then we also have array-contains-any,
which is more of your or style operations.
Where you can say hey, give me categories
where any of the fields within array or
any of the elements within the array
of categories is fun or kids.
And so this is,
to answer the question earlier,
this is one of the places where you can
do an or style query and limited to 25.
So this is in the querying
arrays page in the same project,
just in this in pages/QueryingArrays.
And let's write this expense right here.
So get the first 100 categories that
are categorized as fun and kids.
So now we're no longer dealing with
single categories, multiple categories.
So expensesCol, where categories,
where it equals this because
it must equal exactly that.
With array contains, it's not an array
one, and I always get that confused cuz
the array contains any is
all the multiple or values.
Array-contains is single values,
whereas you can actually
this is where the syntax, this is what,
array-contains looks like this.
And so array-contains is usually used for
one value because now it's saying
the array must contain
something that looks like that.
Okay, so on equals we have that, so
now we're gonna do the second one,
get the first 25 categories that
are categorized as ONLY fun OR kids.
So within this I can say,
expensesCol and
where categories,
And array-contains-any, fun, kids.
Limit 25.
All right, so
now the only thing I meant to say
as only it's just fun or kids.
And so within here we have fun,
taxes, kids,
utilities, kids, healthcare, fun, houses.
But no matter what,
it's going to be fun and
kids is just going to be the results,
yeah.
And so this one is fun,
just single one of fun.
So now, I can query based upon multiple or
values.
And so this is an array-contains one
where it says give me the first ten
categories that contain the fun category.
So where, categories,
array-contains, fun.
And so right here, it's fun, taxes, fun,
housing, each field is
guaranteed to have fun.
I like this query.
This one right here is more advanced.
It says, get the first 25 expenses
that occurred in January,
2021, but not on 12/30,
12/26, 12/23, 12/28.
So this is just like the one
we did in the previous one,
but it has more restrictions on it.
So getting to that, we can just copy
this over for the sake of time.
And so get the first, so you can get
rid of food for this, get the first 25.
So limit 25 that occurred within January,
but not on.
So in this case, instead of not equals,
I can say not-in, and
then this has to all be date.
So what I'm gonna do here is
just format it out like this,
so we have 12/26, 12/30.
12/23 and 12/28.
So now when I refresh,
let's look for those dates.
I only needed the first 25 and
I think there's more than that, so
up until like 250.
Yeah, so we have all these dates,
still, more, wow!
This is big.
Let's do 350.
Man, this is still,
this is a huge collection, wow, 450.
All right, that's more like it.
So here, we don't have 12/26, 30, 23, 28.
So 29 to 27, so we're skipping out of 28.
Same here, when we get to 24,
we don't have 23.
We go straight to 22 and
then we also skipped over 26.
So now we've limited out specific dates.
So that is querying with both, not in, in,
with querying with array values for
arrays.
It's a really powerful way of
getting more out of your query.
So if you're structuring your
data in Firestore by saying, hey,
let me store this as an array,
there's a lot more querying power
that you're gonna get out of it.
But one thing that I think was
serendipitous that happened was.
You notice how to keep increasing this
limit to get more, and more, and more?
Well, there's gonna be a lot of times
in your queries where you want to
continue the range, where you say, hey,
I got the first page, so to speak.
So I wanna get the second page or
the third page.
On FireStore we have a whole set
of operators that we call cursors,
that allow us to not
only increase the window.
Because you can feasibly see how
every time you click the button,
you could just increase the limit.
But then you'd go from
reading 0 to 100 to 0 to 450.
And you're just increasing this range
that might not be needed for the page,
cuz you're only ever showing maybe
a hundred results at a time.
So what we're gonna look into
doing next is called cursoring.
Which is keeping an active window of
a hundred or whatever end amount of
documents you want in a query
from one section on to the next.
>> Is it possible to query
where category equals fun or
food or where an author equals David?
>> Yes, that right there, you could do,
based on a composite query because
you have categories as one field.
And then author name
would be another field.
And so within those, you would have
to create a composite query for
production, but yes, you can do that.